<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h2>
			<p>‚ÄúYou have had a disquieting letter?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The voice was Julie‚Äôs. Delafield was standing, apparently in thought, at the farther corner of the little, raised terrace of the hotel. She approached him with an affectionate anxiety, of which he was instantly conscious.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am afraid I may have to leave you tonight,‚Äù he said, turning towards her, and holding out the letter in his hand.</p>
			<p>It contained a few agitated lines from the Duke of Chudleigh.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThey tell me my lad can‚Äôt get over this. He‚Äôs made a gallant fight, but this beats us. A week or two‚ÅÝ‚Äîno more. Ask <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝDelafield to let you come. She will, I know. She wrote to me very kindly. Mervyn keeps talking of you. You‚Äôd come, if you heard him. It‚Äôs ghastly‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe cruelty of it all. Whether I can live without him, that‚Äôs the point.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôll go, of course?‚Äù said Julie, returning it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTonight, if you allow it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course. You ought.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI hate leaving you alone, with this trouble on your hands,‚Äù said Jacob, in some agitation. ‚ÄúWhat are your plans?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI could follow you next week. Aileen comes down today. And I should like to wait here for the mail.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIn five days, about, it should be here,‚Äù said Delafield.</p>
			<p>There was a silence. She dropped into a chair beside the balustrade of the terrace, which was wreathed in wistaria, and looked out upon the vast landscape of the lake. His thought was, ‚ÄúHow can the mail matter to her? She cannot suppose that he had written‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Aloud he said, in some embarrassment, ‚ÄúYou expect letters yourself?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI expect nothing,‚Äù she said, after a pause. ‚ÄúBut Aileen is living on the chance of letters.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere may be nothing for her‚ÅÝ‚Äîexcept, indeed, her letters to him‚ÅÝ‚Äîpoor child!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe knows that. But the hope keeps her alive.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd you?‚Äù thought Delafield, with an inward groan, as he looked down upon her pale profile. He had a moment‚Äôs hateful vision of himself as the elder brother in the parable. Was Julie‚Äôs mind to be the home of an eternal antithesis between the living husband and the dead lover‚ÅÝ‚Äîin which the latter had forever the <i xml:lang="fr">beau role</i>?</p>
			<p>Then, impatiently, Jacob wrenched himself from mean thoughts. It was as though he bared his head remorsefully before the dead man.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI will go to the Foreign Office,‚Äù he said, in her ear, ‚Äúas I pass through town. They will have letters. All the information I can get you shall have at once.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThank you, <span xml:lang="fr">mon ami</span>,‚Äù she said, almost inaudibly.</p>
			<p>Then she looked up, and he was startled by her eyes. Where he had expected grief, he saw a shrinking animation.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWrite to me often,‚Äù she said, imperiously.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course. But don‚Äôt trouble to answer much. Your hands are so full here.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She frowned.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTrouble! Why do you spoil me so? Demand‚ÅÝ‚Äîinsist‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat I should write!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery well,‚Äù he said, smiling, ‚ÄúI demand‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI insist!‚Äù</p>
			<p>She drew a long breath, and went slowly away from him into the house. Certainly the antagonism of her secret thoughts, though it persisted, was no longer merely cold or critical. For it concerned one who was not only the master of his own life, but threatened unexpectedly to become the master of hers.</p>
			<p>She had begun, indeed, to please her imagination with the idea of a relation between them, which, while it ignored the ordinary relations of marriage, should yet include many of the intimacies and refinements of love. More and more did the surprises of his character arrest and occupy her mind. She found, indeed, no ‚Äúplaster saint.‚Äù Her cool intelligence soon detected the traces of a peevish or stubborn temper, and of a natural inertia, perpetually combated, however, by the spiritual energy of a new and other self exfoliating from the old; a self whose acts and ways she watched, sometimes with the held breath of fascination, sometimes with a return of shrinking or fear. That a man should not only appear but be so good was still in her eyes a little absurd. Perhaps her feeling was at bottom the common feeling of the sceptical nature. ‚ÄúWe should listen to the higher voices; but in such a way that if another hypothesis were true, we should not have been too completely duped.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She was ready, also, to convict him of certain prejudices and superstitions which roused in her an intellectual impatience. But when all was said, Delafield, unconsciously, was drawing her towards him, as the fowler draws a fluttering bird. It was the exquisite refinement of those spiritual insights and powers he possessed which constantly appealed, not only to her heart, but‚ÅÝ‚Äîa very important matter in Julie‚Äôs case‚ÅÝ‚Äîto her taste, to her own carefully tempered instinct for the rare and beautiful.</p>
			<p>He was the master, then, she admitted, of a certain vein of spiritual genius. Well, here should he lead‚ÅÝ‚Äîand even, if he pleased, command her. She would sit at his feet, and he should open to her ranges of feeling, delights, and subtleties of moral sensation hitherto unknown to her.</p>
			<p>Thus the feeling of ennui and reaction which had marked the first weeks of her married life had now wholly disappeared. Delafield was no longer dull or pedantic in her eyes. She passed alternately from moments of intolerable smart and pity for the dead to moments of agitation and expectancy connected with her husband. She thought over their meeting of the night before; she looked forward to similar hours to come.</p>
			<p>Meanwhile his relation towards her in many matters was still naively ignorant and humble‚ÅÝ‚Äîdetermined by the simplicity of a man of some real greatness, who never dreamed of claiming tastes or knowledge he did not possess, whether in small things or large. This phase, however, only gave the more value to one which frequently succeeded it. For suddenly the conversation would enter regions where he felt himself peculiarly at home, and, with the same unconsciousness on his part, she would be made to feel the dignity and authority which surrounded his ethical and spiritual life. And these contrasts‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis weakness and this strength‚ÅÝ‚Äîcombined with the man-and-woman element which is always present in any situation of the kind, gave rise to a very varied and gradually intensifying play of feeling between them. Feeling only possible, no doubt, for the <i xml:lang="fr">raffin√©s</i> of this world; but for them full of strange charm, and even of excitement.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Delafield left the little inn for Montreux, Lausanne, and London that afternoon. He bent to kiss his wife at the moment of his departure, in the bare sitting-room that had been improvised for them on the ground floor of the hotel, and as she let her face linger ever so little against his she felt strong arms flung round her, and was crushed against his breast in a hungry embrace. When he released her with a flush and a murmured word of apology she shook her head, smiling sadly but saying nothing. The door closed on him, and at the sound she made a hasty step forward.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJacob! Take me with you!‚Äù</p>
			<p>But her voice died in the rattle and bustle of the diligence outside, and she was left trembling from head to foot, under a conflict of emotions that seemed now to exalt, now to degrade her.</p>
			<p>Half an hour after Delafield‚Äôs departure there appeared on the terrace of the hotel a tottering, emaciated form‚ÅÝ‚ÄîAileen Moffatt, in a black dress and hat, clinging to her mother‚Äôs arm. But she refused the deck-chair, which they had spread with cushions and shawls.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo; let me sit up.‚Äù And she took an ordinary chair, looking round upon the lake and the little flowery terrace with a slow, absorbed look, like one trying to remember. Suddenly she bowed her head on her hands.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAileen!‚Äù cried Lady Blanche, in an agony.</p>
			<p>But the girl motioned her away. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt, mummy. I‚Äôm all right.‚Äù</p>
			<p>And restraining any further emotion, she laid her arms on the balustrade and gazed long and calmly into the purple depths and gleaming snows of the Rh√¥ne valley. Her hat oppressed her and she took it off, revealing the abundance of her delicately golden hair, which, in its lack of lustre and spring, seemed to share in the physical distress and loss of the whole personality.</p>
			<p>The face was that of a doomed creature, incapable now of making any successful struggle for the right to live. What had been sensibility had become melancholy; the slight, chronic frown was deeper, the pale lips more pinched. Yet intermittently there was still great sweetness, the last effort of a ‚Äúbeautiful soul‚Äù meant for happiness, and withered before its time.</p>
			<p>As Julie stood beside her, while Lady Blanche had gone to fetch a book from the salon, the poor child put out her hand and grasped that of Julie.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt is quite possible I may get the letter tonight,‚Äù she said, in a hurried whisper. ‚ÄúMy maid went down to Montreux‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere is a clever man at the post-office who tried to make it out for us. He thinks it‚Äôll be tonight.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt be too disappointed if nothing comes,‚Äù said Julie, caressing the hand. Its thinness, its icy and lifeless touch, dismayed her. Ah, how easily might this physical wreck have been her doing!</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The bells of Montreux struck half-past six. A restless and agonized expectation began to show itself in all the movements of the invalid. She left her chair and began to pace the little terrace on Julie‚Äôs arm. Her dragging step, the mournful black of her dress, the struggle between youth and death in her sharpened face, made her a tragic presence. Julie could hardly bear it, while all the time she, too, was secretly and breathlessly waiting for Warkworth‚Äôs last words.</p>
			<p>Lady Blanche returned, and Julie hurried away.</p>
			<p>She passed through the hotel and walked down the Montreux road. The post had already reached the first houses of the village, and the postman, who knew her, willingly gave her the letters.</p>
			<p>Yes, a packet for Aileen, addressed in an unknown hand to a London address, and forwarded thence. It bore the Denga postmark.</p>
			<p>And another for herself, readdressed from London by Madame Bornier. She tore off the outer envelope; beneath was a letter of which the address was feebly written in Warkworth‚Äôs hand: ‚ÄúMademoiselle Le Breton, 3 Heribert Street, London.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She had the strength to carry her own letter to her room, to call Aileen‚Äôs maid and send her with the other packet to Lady Blanche. Then she locked herself in.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p>Oh, the poor, crumpled page, and the labored handwriting!</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>‚Äú<span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Julie</span>, I am dying. They are such good fellows, but they can‚Äôt save me. It‚Äôs horrible.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI saw the news of your engagement in a paper the day before I left Denga. You‚Äôre right. He‚Äôll make you happy. Tell him I said so. Oh, my God, I shall never trouble you again! I bless you for the letter you wrote me. Here it is.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ No, I can‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äîcan‚Äôt read it. Drowsy. No pain‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>And here the pen had dropped from his hand. Searching for something more, she drew from the envelope the wild and passionate letter she had written him at Heribert Street, in the early morning after her return from Paris, while she was waiting for Delafield to bring her the news of Lord Lackington‚Äôs state.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The small <span xml:lang="fr">table d‚Äôh√¥te</span> of the Hotel Michel was still further diminished that night. Lady Blanche was with her daughter, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝDelafield did not appear.</p>
			<p>But the moon was hanging in glory over the lake when Julie, unable to bear her room and her thoughts any longer, threw a lace scarf about her head and neck, and went blindly climbing through the upward paths leading to Les Avants. The roads were silver in the moonlight; so was the lake, save where the great mountain shadows lay across the eastern end. And suddenly, white, through pine-trees, ‚ÄúJaman, delicately tall!‚Äù</p>
			<p>The air cooled her brow, and from the deep, enveloping night her torn heart drew balm, and a first soothing of the pulse of pain. Every now and then, as she sat down to rest, a waking dream overshadowed her. She seemed to be supporting Warkworth in her arms; his dying head lay upon her breast, and she murmured courage and love into his ear. But not as Julie Le Breton. Through all the anguish of what was almost an illusion of the senses, she still felt herself Delafield‚Äôs wife. And in that flood of silent speech she poured out on Warkworth, it was as though she offered him also Jacob‚Äôs compassion, Jacob‚Äôs homage, mingled with her own.</p>
			<p>Once she found herself sitting at the edge of a meadow, environed by the heavy scents of flowers. Some apple-trees with whitened trunks rose between her and the lake a thousand feet below. The walls of Chillon, the houses of Montreux, caught the light; opposite, the deep forests of Bouveret and <abbr>St.</abbr> Gingolphe lay black upon the lake; above them rode the moon. And to the east the high Alps, their pure lines a little effaced and withdrawn, as when a light veil hangs over a sanctuary.</p>
			<p>Julie looked out upon a vast freedom of space, and by a natural connection she seemed to be also surveying her own world of life and feeling, her past and her future. She thought of her childhood and her parents, of her harsh, combative youth, of the years with Lady Henry, of Warkworth, of her husband, and the life into which his strong hand had so suddenly and rashly drawn her. Her thoughts took none of the religious paths so familiar to his. And yet her reverie was so far religious that her mind seemed to herself to be quivering under the onset of affections, emotions, awes, till now unknown, and that, looking back, she was conscious of a groping sense of significance, of purpose, in all that had befallen her. Yet to this sense she could put no words. Only, in the end, through the constant action of her visualizing imagination, it connected itself with Delafield‚Äôs face, and with the memory of many of his recent acts and sayings.</p>
			<p>It was one of those hours which determine the history of a man or woman. And the august Alpine beauty entered in, so that Julie, in this sad and thrilling act of self-probing, felt herself in the presence of powers and dominations divine.</p>
			<p>Her face, stained with tears, took gradually some of the calm, the loftiness of the night. Yet the close-shut, brooding mouth would slip sometimes into a smile exquisitely soft and gentle, as though the heart remembered something which seemed to the intelligence at once folly and sweetness.</p>
			<p>What was going on within her was, to her own consciousness, a strange thing. It appeared to her as a kind of simplification, a return to childhood; or, rather, was it the emergence in the grown mind, tired with the clamor of its own egotistical or passionate life, of some instincts, natural to the child, which she, nevertheless, as a child had never known; instincts of trust, of self-abandonment, steeped, perhaps, in those tears which are themselves only another happiness?‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p>But hush! What are our poor words in the presence of these nobler secrets of the wrestling and mounting spirit!</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>On the way down she saw another figure emerge from the dark.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLady Blanche!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lady Blanche stood still.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe hotel was stifling,‚Äù she said, in a voice that vainly tried for steadiness.</p>
			<p>Julie perceived that she had been weeping.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAileen is asleep?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPerhaps. They have given her something to make her sleep.‚Äù</p>
			<p>They walked on towards the hotel.</p>
			<p>Julie hesitated.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe was not disappointed?‚Äù she said, at last, in a low voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo!‚Äù said the mother, sharply. ‚ÄúBut one knew, of course, there must be letters for her. Thank God, she can feel that his very last thought was for her! The letters which have reached her are dated the day before the fatal attack began‚ÅÝ‚Äîgiving a complete account of his march‚ÅÝ‚Äîmost interesting‚ÅÝ‚Äîshowing how he trusted her already‚ÅÝ‚Äîthough she is such a child. It will tranquillize her to feel how completely she possessed his heart‚ÅÝ‚Äîpoor fellow!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie said nothing, and Lady Blanche, with bitter satisfaction, felt rather than saw what seemed to her the just humiliation expressed in the drooping and black-veiled figure beside her.</p>
			<p>Next day there was once more a tinge of color on Aileen‚Äôs cheeks. Her beautiful hair fell round her once more in a soft life and confusion, and the roses which her mother had placed beside her on the bed were not in too pitiful contrast with her frail loveliness.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRead it, please,‚Äù she said, as soon as she found herself alone with Julie, pushing her letter tenderly towards her. ‚ÄúHe tells me everything‚ÅÝ‚Äîeverything! All he was doing and hoping‚ÅÝ‚Äîconsults me in everything. Isn‚Äôt it an honor‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen I‚Äôm so ignorant and childish? I‚Äôll try to be brave‚ÅÝ‚Äîtry to be worthy‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>And while her whole frame was shaken with deep, silent sobs, she greedily watched Julie read the letter.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOughtn‚Äôt I to try and live,‚Äù she said, dashing away her tears, as Julie returned it, ‚Äúwhen he loved me so?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie kissed her with a passionate and guilty pity. The letter might have been written to any friend, to any charming child for whom a much older man had a kindness. It gave a businesslike account of their march, dilated on one or two points of policy, drew some humorous sketches of his companions, and concluded with a few affectionate and playful sentences.</p>
			<p>But when the wrestle with death began, Warkworth wrote but one last letter, uttered but one cry of the heart, and it lay now in Julie‚Äôs bosom.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>A few days passed. Delafield‚Äôs letters were short and full of sadness. Elmira still lived; but any day or hour might see the end. As for the father‚ÅÝ‚ÄîBut the subject was too tragic to be written of, even to her. Not to feel, not to realize; there lay the only chance of keeping one‚Äôs own courage, and so of being any help whatever to two of the most miserable of human beings.</p>
			<p>At last, rather more than a week after Delafield‚Äôs departure, came two telegrams. One was from Delafield‚ÅÝ‚Äî<q class="telegram">Mervyn died this morning. Duke‚Äôs condition causes great anxiety.</q> The other from Evelyn Crowborough‚ÅÝ‚Äî<q class="telegram">Elmira died this morning. Going down to Shropshire to help Jacob.</q></p>
			<p>Julie threw down the telegrams. A rush of proud tears came to her eyes. She swept to the door of her room, opened it, and called her maid.</p>
			<p>The maid came, and when she saw the sparkling looks and strained bearing of her mistress, wondered what crime she was to be rebuked for. Julie merely bade her pack at once, as it was her intention to catch the eight o‚Äôclock through train at Lausanne that night for England.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Twenty hours later the train carrying Julie to London entered Victoria Station. On the platform stood the little Duchess, impatiently expectant. Julie was clasped in her arms, and had no time to wonder at the pallor and distraction of her friend before she was hurried into the brougham waiting beyond the train.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, Julie!‚Äù cried the Duchess, catching the traveller‚Äôs hands, as they drove away. ‚ÄúJulie, darling!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie turned to her in amazement. The blue eyes fixed upon her had no tears, but in them, and in the Duchess‚Äôs whole aspect, was expressed a vivid horror and agitation which struck at Julie‚Äôs heart.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat is it?‚Äù she said, catching her breath. ‚ÄúWhat is it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJulie, I was going to Faircourt this morning. First your telegram stopped me. I thought I‚Äôd wait and go with you. Then came another, from Delafield. The Duke! The poor Duke!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie‚Äôs attitude changed unconsciously‚ÅÝ‚Äîinstantly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes; tell me!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs in all the papers tonight‚ÅÝ‚Äîon the placards‚ÅÝ‚Äîdon‚Äôt look out!‚Äù And the Duchess lifted her hand and drew down the blinds of the brougham. ‚ÄúHe was in a most anxious state yesterday, but they thought him calmer at night, and he insisted on being left alone. The doctors still kept a watch, but he managed in some mysterious way to evade them all, and this morning he was missed. After two hours they found him‚ÅÝ‚Äîin the river that runs below the house!‚Äù</p>
			<p>There was a silence.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd Jacob?‚Äù said Julie, hoarsely.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs what I‚Äôm so anxious about,‚Äù exclaimed the Duchess. ‚ÄúOh, I am thankful you‚Äôve come! You know how Jacob‚Äôs always felt about the Duke and Mervyn‚ÅÝ‚Äîhow he‚Äôs hated the notion of succeeding. And Susan, who went down yesterday, telegraphed to me last night‚ÅÝ‚Äîbefore this horror‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat he was ‚Äòterribly strained and overwrought.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSucceeding?‚Äù said Julie, vaguely. Mechanically she had drawn up the blind again, and her eyes followed the dingy lines of the Vauxhall Bridge Road, till suddenly they turned away from the placards outside a small stationer‚Äôs shop which announced: ‚ÄúTragic death of the Duke of Chudleigh and his son.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Duchess looked at her curiously without replying. Julie seemed to be grappling with some idea which escaped her, or, rather, was presently expelled by one more urgent.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs Jacob ill?‚Äù she said, abruptly, looking her companion full in the face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI only know what I‚Äôve told you. Susan says ‚Äòstrained and overwrought.‚Äô Oh, it‚Äôll be all right when he gets you!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie made no reply. She sat motionless, and the Duchess, stealing another glance at her, must needs, even in this tragic turmoil, allow herself the reflection that she was a more delicate study in black-and-white, a more refined and accented personality than ever.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou won‚Äôt mind,‚Äù said Evelyn, timidly, after a pause; ‚Äúbut Lady Henry is staying with me, and also Sir Wilfrid Bury, who had such a bad cold in his lodgings that I went down there a week ago, got the doctor‚Äôs leave, and carried him off there and then. And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMontresor‚Äôs coming in. He particularly wanted, he said, just to press your hand. But they shan‚Äôt bother you if you‚Äôre tired. Our train goes at 10:10, and Freddie has got the express stopped for us at Westonport‚ÅÝ‚Äîabout three in the morning.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The carriage rolled into Grosvenor Square, and presently stopped before Crowborough House. Julie alighted, looked round her at the July green of the square, at the brightness of the window-boxes, and then at the groom of the chambers who was taking her wraps from her‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe same man who, in the old days, used to feed Lady Henry‚Äôs dogs with sweet biscuit. It struck her that he was showing her a very particular and eager attention.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Meanwhile in the Duchess‚Äôs drawing-room a little knot of people was gathered‚ÅÝ‚ÄîLady Henry, Sir Wilfrid Bury, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝMeredith. Their demeanor illustrated both the subduing and the exciting influence of great events. Lady Henry was more talkative than usual. Sir Wilfrid more silent.</p>
			<p>Lady Henry seemed to have profited by her stay at Torquay. As she sat upright in a stiff chair, her hands resting on her stick, she presented her characteristic aspect of English solidity, crossed by a certain free and foreign animation. She had been already wrangling with Sir Wilfrid, and giving her opinion freely on the ‚Äúsocialistic‚Äù views on rank and property attributed to Jacob Delafield. ‚ÄúIf <em>he</em> can‚Äôt digest the cake, that doesn‚Äôt mean it isn‚Äôt good,‚Äù had been her last impatient remark, when Sir Wilfrid interrupted her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOnly a few minutes more,‚Äù he said, looking at his watch. ‚ÄúNow, then, what line do we take? How much is our friend likely to know?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúUnless she has lost her eyesight‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhich Evelyn has not reported‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe will know most of what matters before she has gone a hundred yards from the station,‚Äù said Lady Henry, dryly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, the streets! Yes; but persons are often curiously dazed by such a gallop of events.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot Julie Le Breton!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI should like to be informed as to the part you are about to play,‚Äù said Sir Wilfrid, in a lower voice, ‚Äúthat I may play up to it. Where are you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Both looked at Meredith, who had walked to a distant window and was standing there looking out upon the square. Lady Henry was well aware that <em>he</em> had not forgiven her, and, to tell the truth, was rather anxious that he should. So she, too, dropped her voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI bow to the institutions of my country,‚Äù she said, a little sparkle in the strong, gray eye.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIn other words, you forgive a duchess?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI acknowledge the head of the family, and the greater carries the less.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSuppose Jacob should be unforgiving?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe hasn‚Äôt the spirit.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd she?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHer conscience will be on my side.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI thought it was your theory that she had none?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJacob, let us hope, will have developed some. He has a good deal to spare.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Wilfrid laughed. ‚ÄúSo it is you who will do the pardoning?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI shall offer an armed and honorable peace. The Duchess of Chudleigh may intrigue and tell lies, if she pleases. I am not giving her a hundred a year.‚Äù</p>
			<p>There was a pause.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, if I may ask,‚Äù said Sir Wilfrid, at the end of it, ‚Äúdid you quarrel with Jacob? I understand there was a separate cause.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lady Henry hesitated.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe paid me a debt,‚Äù she said, at last, and a sudden flush rose in her old, blanched cheek.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd that annoyed you? You have the oddest code!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lady Henry bit her lip.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOne does not like one‚Äôs money thrown in one‚Äôs face.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMost unreasonable of women!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNever mind, Wilfrid. We all have our feelings.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPrecisely. Well, no doubt Jacob will make peace. As for‚ÅÝ‚ÄîAh, here comes Montresor!‚Äù</p>
			<p>A visible tremor passed through Lady Henry. The door was thrown open, and the footman announced the Minister for War.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHer grace, sir, is not yet returned.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Montresor stumbled into the room, and even with his eyeglasses carefully adjusted, did not at once perceive who was in it.</p>
			<p>Sir Wilfrid went towards him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh, Bury! Convalescent, I hope?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúQuite. The Duchess has gone to meet <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝDelafield.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>‚ÅÝ‚Äî?‚Äù Montresor‚Äôs mouth opened. ‚ÄúBut, of course, you know?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh yes, I know. But one‚Äôs tongue has to get oiled. You see Lady Henry?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Montresor started.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am glad to see Lady Henry,‚Äù he replied, stiffly.</p>
			<p>Lady Henry slowly rose and advanced two steps. She quietly held out her hand to him, and, smiling, looked him in the face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTake it. There is no longer any cause of quarrel between us. I raise the embargo.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Minister took the hand, and shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh, but you had no right to impose it,‚Äù he said, with energy.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, for goodness sake, meet me halfway,‚Äù cried Lady Henry, ‚Äúor I shall never hold out!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Wilfrid, whose half-embarrassed gaze was bent on the ground, looked up and was certain that he saw a gleam of moisture in those wrinkled eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy have you held out so long? What does it matter to me whether Miss Julie be a duchess or no? That doesn‚Äôt make up to me for all the months you‚Äôve shut your door on me. And I was always given to understand, by-the-way, that it wouldn‚Äôt matter to you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve had three months at Torquay,‚Äù said Lady Henry, raising her shoulders.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI hope it was dull to distraction.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was. And my doctor tells me the more I fret the more gout I may expect.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo all this is not generosity, but health?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúKiss my hand, sir, and have done with it! You are all avenged. At Torquay I had four companions in seven weeks.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMore power to them!‚Äù said Montresor. ‚ÄúMeredith, come here. Shall we accept the pleas?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Meredith came slowly from the window, his hands behind his back.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLady Henry commands and we obey,‚Äù he said, slowly. ‚ÄúBut today begins a new world‚ÅÝ‚Äîfounded in ruin, like the rest of them.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He raised his fine eyes, in which there was no laughter, rather a dreamy intensity. Lady Henry shrank.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you‚Äôre thinking of Chudleigh,‚Äù she said, uncertainly, ‚Äúbe glad for him. It was release. As for Henry Warkworth‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh, poor fellow!‚Äù said Montresor, perfunctorily. ‚ÄúPoor fellow!‚Äù</p>
			<p>He had dropped Lady Henry‚Äôs hand, but he now recaptured it, enclosing the thin, jewelled fingers in his own.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, well, then it‚Äôs peace, with all my heart.‚Äù He stooped and lightly kissed the fingers. ‚ÄúAnd now, when do you expect our friend?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAt any moment,‚Äù said Lady Henry.</p>
			<p>She seated herself, and Montresor beside her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am told,‚Äù said Montresor, ‚Äúthat this horror will not only affect Delafield personally, but that he will regard the dukedom as a calamity.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHm!‚ÅÝ‚Äîand you believe it?‚Äù said Lady Henry.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI try to,‚Äù was the Minister‚Äôs laughing reply. ‚ÄúAh, surely, here they are!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Meredith turned from the window, to which he had gone back.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe carriage has just arrived,‚Äù he announced, and he stood fidgeting, standing first on one foot, then on the other, and running his hand through his mane of gray hair. His large features were pale, and any close observer would have detected the quiver of emotion.</p>
			<p>A sound of voices from the anteroom, the Duchess‚Äôs light tones floating to the top. At the same time a door on the other side of the drawing-room opened and the Duke of Crowborough appeared.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think I hear my wife,‚Äù he said, as he greeted Montresor and hurriedly crossed the room.</p>
			<p>There was a rustle of quick steps, and the little Duchess entered.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFreddie, here is Julie!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Behind appeared a tall figure in black. Everybody in the room advanced, including Lady Henry, who, however, after a few steps stood still behind the others, leaning on her stick.</p>
			<p>Julie looked round the little circle, then at the Duke of Crowborough, who had gravely given her his hand. The suppressed excitement already in the room clearly communicated itself to her. She did not lose her self-command for an instant, but her face pleaded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs it really true? Perhaps there is some mistake?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI fear there can be none,‚Äù said the Duke, sadly. ‚ÄúPoor Chudleigh had been long dead when they found him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFreddie,‚Äù said the Duchess, interrupting, ‚ÄúI have told Greswell we shall want the carriage at half-past nine for Euston. Will that do?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPerfectly.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Greswell, the handsome groom of the chambers, approached Julie.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYour grace‚Äôs maid wishes to know whether it is your grace‚Äôs wish that she should go round to Heribert Street before taking the luggage to Euston?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie looked at the man, bewildered. Then a stormy color rushed into her cheeks.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDoes he mean my maid?‚Äù she said to the Duke, piteously.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCertainly. Will you give your orders?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She gave them, and then, turning again to the Duke, she covered her eyes with her hands a moment.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat does it all mean?‚Äù she said, faltering. ‚ÄúIt seems as though we were all mad.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou understand, of course, that Jacob succeeds?‚Äù said the Duke, not without coldness; and he stood still an instant, gazing at this woman, who must now, he supposed, feel herself at the very summit of her ambitions.</p>
			<p>Julie drew a long breath. Then she perceived Lady Henry. Instantly, impetuously, she crossed the room. But as she reached that composed and formidable figure, the old timidity, the old fear, seized her. She paused abruptly, but she held out her hand.</p>
			<p>Lady Henry took it. The two women stood regarding each other, while the other persons in the room instinctively turned away from their meeting. Lady Henry‚Äôs first look was one of curiosity. Then, before the indefinable, ennobling change in Julie‚Äôs face, now full of the pale agitation of memory, the eyes of the older woman wavered and dropped. But she soon recovered herself.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe meet again under very strange circumstances,‚Äù she said, quietly; ‚Äúthough I have long foreseen them. As for our former experience, we were in a false relation, and it made fools of us both. You and Jacob are now the heads of the family. And if you like to make friends with me on this new footing, I am ready. As to my behavior, I think it was natural; but if it rankles in your mind, I apologize.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The personal pride of the owner, curbed in its turn by the pride of tradition and family, spoke strangely from these words. Julie stood trembling, her chest heaving.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI, too, regret‚ÅÝ‚Äîand apologize,‚Äù she said, in a low voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen we begin again. But now you must let Evelyn take you to rest for an hour or two. I am sorry you have this hurried journey tonight.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie pressed her hands to her breast with one of those dramatic movements that were natural to her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, I must see Jacob!‚Äù she said, under her breath‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúI must see Jacob!‚Äù</p>
			<p>And she turned away, looking vaguely round her. Meredith approached.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúComfort yourself,‚Äù he said, very gently, pressing her hand in both of his. ‚ÄúIt has been a great shock, but when you get there he‚Äôll be all right.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJacob?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Her expression, the piteous note in her voice, awoke in him an answering sense of pain. He wondered how it might be between the husband and wife. Yet it was borne in upon him, as upon Lady Henry, that her marriage, however interpreted, had brought with it profound and intimate transformation. A different woman stood before him. And when, after a few more words, the Duchess swept down upon them, insisting that Julie must rest awhile, Meredith stood looking after the retreating figures, filled with the old, bitter sense of human separateness, and the fragmentariness of all human affections. Then he made his farewells to the Duke and Lady Henry, and slipped away. He had turned a page in the book of life; and as he walked through Grosvenor Square he applied his mind resolutely to one of the political ‚Äúcauses‚Äù with which, as a powerful and fighting journalist, he was at that moment occupied.</p>
			<p>Lady Henry, too, watched Julie‚Äôs exit from the room.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo now she supposes herself in love with Jacob?‚Äù she thought, with amusement, as she resumed her seat.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat if Delafield refuses to be made a duke?‚Äù said Sir Wilfrid, in her ear.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt would be a situation new to the Constitution,‚Äù said Lady Henry, composedly. ‚ÄúI advise you, however, to wait till it occurs.‚Äù</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The northern express rushed onward through the night. Rugby, Stafford, Crewe had been left behind. The Yorkshire valleys and moors began to show themselves in pale ridges and folds under the moon. Julie, wakeful in her corner opposite the little, sleeping Duchess, was conscious of an interminable rush of images through a brain that longed for a few unconscious and forgetful moments. She thought of the deferential stationmaster at Euston; of the fuss attending their arrival on the platform; of the arrangements made for stopping the express at the Yorkshire Station, where they were to alight.</p>
			<p>Faircourt? Was it the great Early-Georgian house of which she had heard Jacob speak‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe vast pile, half barrack, half palace, in which, according to him, no human being could be either happy or at home?</p>
			<p>And this was now his‚ÅÝ‚Äîand hers? Again the whirl of thoughts swept and danced round her.</p>
			<p>A wild, hill country. In the valleys, the blackness of thick trees, the gleam of rivers, the huge, lifeless factories; and beyond, the high, silver edges, the sharp shadows of the moors.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ The train slackened, and the little Duchess woke at once.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTen minutes to three. Oh, Julie, here we are!‚Äù</p>
			<p>The dawn was just coldly showing as they alighted. Carriages and servants were waiting, and various persons whose identity and function it was not easy to grasp. One of them, however, at once approached Julie with a privileged air, and she perceived that he was a doctor.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am very glad that your grace has come,‚Äù he said, as he raised his hat. ‚ÄúThe trouble with the Duke is shock, and want of sleep.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie looked at him, still bewildered.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow long has my husband been ill?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He walked on beside her, describing in as few words as possible the harrowing days preceding the death of the boy, Delafield‚Äôs attempts to soothe and control the father, the stratagem by which the poor Duke had outwitted them all, and the weary hours of search through the night, under a drizzling rain, which had resulted, about dawn, in the discovery of the Duke‚Äôs body in one of the deeper holes of the river.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhen the procession returned to the house, your husband‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe speaker framed the words uncertainly‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúhad a long fainting-fit. It was probably caused by the exhaustion of the search‚ÅÝ‚Äîmany hours without food‚ÅÝ‚Äîand many sleepless nights. We kept him in his room all day. But towards evening he insisted on getting up. The restlessness he shows is itself a sign of shock. I trust, now you are here, you may be able to persuade him to spare himself. Otherwise the consequences might be grave.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The drive to the house lay mainly through a vast park, dotted with stiff and melancholy woods. The morning was cloudy; even the wild roses in the hedges and the daisies in the grass had neither gayety nor color. Soon the house appeared‚ÅÝ‚Äîan immense pile of stone, with a pillared centre, and wings to east and west, built in a hollow, gray and sunless. The mournful blinds drawn closely down made of it rather a mausoleum for the dead than a home for the living.</p>
			<p>At the approach of the carriage, however, doors were thrown open, servants appeared, and on the steps, trembling and heavy-eyed, stood Susan Delafield.</p>
			<p>She looked timidly at Julie, and then, as they passed into the great central hall, the two kissed each other with tears.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe is in his room, waiting for you. The doctors persuaded him not to come down. But he is dressed, and reading and writing. We don‚Äôt believe he has slept at all for a week.‚Äù</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>‚ÄúThrough there,‚Äù said Susan Delafield, stepping back. ‚ÄúThat is the door.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie softly opened it, and closed it behind her. Delafield had heard her approach, and was standing by the table, supporting himself upon it. His aspect filled Julie with horror. She ran to him and threw her arms round him. He sank back into his chair, and she found herself kneeling beside him, murmuring to him, while his head rested upon her shoulder.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJacob, I am here! Oh, I ought to have been here all through! It‚Äôs terrible‚ÅÝ‚Äîterrible! But, Jacob, you won‚Äôt suffer so‚ÅÝ‚Äînow I‚Äôm here‚ÅÝ‚Äînow we‚Äôre together‚ÅÝ‚Äînow I love you, Jacob?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Her voice broke in tears. She put back the hair from his brow, kissing him with a tenderness in which there was a yearning and lovely humility. Then she drew a little away, waiting for him to speak, in an agony.</p>
			<p>But for a time he seemed unable to speak. He feebly released himself, as though he could not bear the emotion she offered him, and his eyes closed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJacob, come and lie down!‚Äù she said, in terror. ‚ÄúLet me call the doctors.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He shook his head, and a faint pressure from his hand bade her sit beside him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI shall be better soon. Give me time. I‚Äôll tell you‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Then silence again. She sat holding his hand, her eyes fixed upon him. Time passed, she knew not how. Susan came into the room‚ÅÝ‚Äîa small sitting-room in the east wing‚ÅÝ‚Äîto tell her that the neighboring bedroom had been prepared for herself. Julie only looked up for an instant with a dumb sign of refusal. A doctor came in, and Delafield made a painful effort to take the few spoonfuls of food and stimulant pressed upon him. Then he buried his face in the side of the armchair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPlease let us be alone,‚Äù he said, with a touch of his old peremptoriness, and both Susan and the doctor obeyed.</p>
			<p>But it was long before he could collect energy enough to talk. When he did, he made an effort to tell her the story of the boy‚Äôs death, and the father‚Äôs self-destruction. He told it leaning forward in his chair, his eyes on the ground, his hands loosely joined, his voice broken and labored. Julie listened, gathering from his report an impression of horror, tragic and irremediable, similar to that which had shaken the balance of his own mind. And when he suddenly looked up with the words, ‚ÄúAnd now <em>I</em> am expected to take their place‚ÅÝ‚Äîto profit by their deaths! What rightful law of God or man binds me to accept a life and a responsibility that I loathe?‚Äù Julie drew back as though he had struck her. His face, his tone were not his own‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere was a violence, a threat in them, addressed, as it were, specially to <em>her</em>. ‚ÄúIf it were not for you,‚Äù his eyes seemed to say, ‚ÄúI could refuse this thing, which will destroy me, soul and body.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She was silent, her pulses fluttering, and he resumed, speaking like one groping his way:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI could have done the work, of course‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI have done it for five years. I could have looked after the estate and the people. But the money, the paraphernalia, the hordes of servants, the mummery of the life! Why, Julie, should we be forced into it? What happiness‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI ask you‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat happiness can it bring to either of us?‚Äù</p>
			<p>And again he looked up, and again it seemed to Julie that his expression was one of animated hostility and antagonism‚ÅÝ‚Äîantagonism to her, as embodying for the moment all the arguments‚ÅÝ‚Äîof advantage, custom, law‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe was, in his own mind, fighting and denying. With a failing heart she felt herself very far from him. Was there not also something in his attitude, unconsciously, of that old primal antagonism of the man to the woman, of the stronger to the weaker, the more spiritual to the more earthy?</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou think, no doubt,‚Äù he said, after a pause, ‚Äúthat it is my duty to take this thing, even if I <em>could</em> lay it down?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know what I think,‚Äù she said, hurriedly. ‚ÄúIt is very strange, of course, what you say. We ought to discuss it thoroughly. Let me have a little time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He gave an impatient sigh, then suddenly rose.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWill you come and look at them?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She, too, rose and put her hand in his.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTake me where you will.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt is not horrible,‚Äù he said, shading his eyes a moment. ‚ÄúThey are at peace.‚Äù</p>
			<p>With a feeble step, leaning on her arm, he guided her through the great, darkened house. Julie was dimly aware of wide staircases, of galleries and high halls, of the pictures of past Delafields looking down upon them. The morning was now far advanced. Many persons were at work in the house, but Julie was conscious of them only as distant figures that vanished at their approach. They walked alone, guarded from all intrusion by the awe and sympathy of the unseen human beings around them.</p>
			<p>Delafield opened the closed door.</p>
			<p>The father and son lay together, side by side, the boy‚Äôs face in a very winning repose, which at first sight concealed the traces of his long suffering; the father‚Äôs also‚ÅÝ‚Äîclosed eyes and sternly shut mouth‚ÅÝ‚Äîsuggesting, not the despair which had driven him to his death, but, rather, as in sombre triumph, the all-forgetting, all-effacing sleep which he had won from death.</p>
			<p>They stood a moment, till Delafield fell on his knees. Julie knelt beside him. She prayed for a while; then she wearied, being, indeed, worn out with her journey. But Delafield was motionless, and it seemed to Julie that he hardly breathed.</p>
			<p>She rose to her feet, and found her eyes for the first time flooded with tears. Never for many weeks had she felt so lonely, or so utterly unhappy. She would have given anything to forget herself in comforting Jacob. But he seemed to have no need of her, no thought of her.</p>
			<p>As she vaguely looked round her, she saw that beside the dead man was a table holding some violets‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe only flowers in the room‚ÅÝ‚Äîsome photographs, and a few well‚ÅÝ‚Äîworn books. Softly she took up one. It was a copy of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Meditations of Marcus Aurelius</i>, much noted and underlined. It would have seemed to her sacrilege to look too close; but she presently perceived a letter between its pages, and in the morning light, which now came strongly into the room through a window looking on the garden, she saw plainly that it was written on thin, foreign paper, that it was closed, and addressed to her husband.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJacob!‚Äù</p>
			<p>She touched him softly on the shoulder, alarmed by his long immobility.</p>
			<p>He looked up, and it appeared to Julie as though he were shaking off with difficulty some abnormal and trancelike state. But he rose, looking at her strangely.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJacob, this is yours.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He took the book abruptly, almost as if she had no right to be holding it. Then, as he saw the letter, the color rushed into his face. He took it, and after a moment‚Äôs hesitation walked to the window and opened it.</p>
			<p>She saw him waver, and ran to his support. But he put out a hand which checked her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was the last thing he wrote,‚Äù he said; and then, uncertainly, and without reading any but the first words of the letter, he put it into his pocket.</p>
			<p>Julie drew back, humiliated. His gesture said that to a secret so intimate and sacred he did not propose to admit his wife.</p>
			<p>They went back silently to the room from which they had come. Sentence after sentence came to Julie‚Äôs lips, but it seemed useless to say them, and once more, but in a totally new way, she was ‚Äúafraid‚Äù of the man beside her.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>She left him shortly after, by his own wish.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI will lie down, and you must rest,‚Äù he said, with decision.</p>
			<p>So she bathed and dressed, and presently she allowed the kind, fair-haired Susan to give her food, and pour out her own history of the death-week which she and Jacob had passed through. But in all that was said, Julie noticed that Susan spoke of her brother very little, and of his inheritance and present position not at all. And once or twice she noticed a wondering or meditative expression in the girl‚Äôs charming eyes as they rested on herself, and realized that the sense of mystery, of hushed expectancy, was not confined to her own mind.</p>
			<p>When Susan left her at nine o‚Äôclock, it was to give a number of necessary orders in the house. The inquest was to be held in the morning, and the whole day would be filled with arrangements for the double funeral. The house would be thronged with officials of all sorts. ‚ÄúPoor Jacob!‚Äù said the sister, sighing, as she went away.</p>
			<p>But the tragic tumult had not yet begun. The house was still quiet, and Julie was for the first time alone.</p>
			<p>She drew up the blinds, and stood gazing out upon the park, now flooded with light; at the famous Italian garden beneath the windows, with its fountains and statues; at the wide lake which filled the middle distance; and the hills beyond it, with the plantations and avenues which showed the extension of the park as far as the eye could see.</p>
			<p>Julie knew very well what it all implied. Her years with Lady Henry, in connection with her own hidden sense of birth and family, had shown her with sufficient plainness the conditions under which the English noble lives. She <em>was</em> actually, at that moment, Duchess of Chudleigh; her strong intelligence faced and appreciated the fact; the social scope and power implied in those three words were all the more vivid to her imagination because of her history and upbringing. She had not grown to maturity <em>inside</em>, like Delafield, but as an exile from a life which was yet naturally hers‚ÅÝ‚Äîan exile, full, sometimes, of envy, and the passions of envy.</p>
			<p>It had no terrors for her‚ÅÝ‚Äîquite the contrary‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis high social state. Rather, there were moments when her whole nature reached out to it, in a proud and confident ambition. Nor had she any mystical demurrer to make. The originality which in some ways she richly possessed was not concerned in the least with the upsetting of class distinctions, and as a Catholic she had been taught loyally to accept them.</p>
			<p>The minutes passed away. Julie sank deeper and deeper into reverie, her head leaning against the side of the window, her hands clasped before her on her black dress. Once or twice she found the tears dropping from her eyes, and once or twice she smiled.</p>
			<p>She was not thinking of the tragic circumstances amid which she stood. From that short trance of feeling even the piteous figures of the dead father and son faded away. Warkworth entered into it, but already invested with the passionless and sexless beauty of a world where‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhether it be to us poetry or reality‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúthey neither marry nor are given in marriage.‚Äù Her warm and living thoughts spent themselves on one theme only‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe redressing of a spiritual balance. She was no longer a beggar to her husband; she had the wherewithal to give. She had been the mere recipient, burdened with debts beyond her paying; now‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>And then it was that her smiles came‚ÅÝ‚Äîtremluous, fugitive, exultant.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>A bell rang in the long corridor, and the slight sound recalled her to life and action. She walked towards the door which separated her from the sitting-room where she had left her husband, and opened it without knocking.</p>
			<p>Delafield was sitting at a writing-table in the window. He had apparently been writing; but she found him in a moment of pause, playing absently with the pen he still held.</p>
			<p>As she entered he looked up, and it seemed to her that his aspect and his mood had changed. Her sudden and indefinable sense of this made it easier for her to hasten to him, and to hold out her hands to him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJacob, you asked me a question just now, and I begged you to give me time. But I am here to answer it. If it would be to your happiness to refuse the dukedom, refuse it. I will not stand in your way, and I will never reproach you. I suppose‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe made herself smile upon him‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúthere are ways of doing such a strange thing. You will be much criticised, perhaps much blamed. But if it seems to you right, do it. I‚Äôll just stand by you and help you. Whatever makes you happy shall make me happy, if only‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Delafield had risen impetuously and held her by both hands. His breast heaved, and the hurrying of her own breath would now hardly let her speak.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf only what?‚Äù he said, hoarsely.</p>
			<p>She raised her eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf only, <span xml:lang="fr">mon ami</span>‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe disengaged one hand and laid it gently on his shoulder‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúyou will give me your trust, and‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîher voice dropped‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúyour love!‚Äù</p>
			<p>They gazed at each other. Between them, around them hovered thoughts of the past‚ÅÝ‚Äîof Warkworth, of the gray Channel waves, of the spiritual relation which had grown up between them in Switzerland, mingled with the consciousness of this new, incalculable present, and of the growth and change in themselves.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôd give it all up?‚Äù said Delafield, gently, still holding her at arm‚Äôs-length.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù she nodded to him, with a smile.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFor me? For my sake?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She smiled again. He drew a long breath, and turning to the table behind him, took up a letter which was lying there.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI want you to read that,‚Äù he said, holding it out to her.</p>
			<p>She drew back, with a little, involuntary frown.</p>
			<p>He understood.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDearest,‚Äù he cried, pressing her hand passionately, ‚ÄúI have been in the grip of all the powers of death! Read it‚ÅÝ‚Äîbe good to me!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Standing beside him, with his arm round her, she read the melancholy Duke‚Äôs last words:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>‚Äú<b epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Jacob</b>‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI leave you a heavy task, which I know well is, in your eyes, a mere burden. But, for my sake, accept it. The man who runs away has small right to counsel courage. But you know what my struggle has been. You‚Äôll judge me mercifully, if no one else does. There is in you, too, the little, bitter drop that spoils us all; but you won‚Äôt be alone. You have your wife, and you love her. Take my place here, care for our people, speak of us sometimes to your children, and pray for us. I bless you, dear fellow. The only moments of comfort I have ever known this last year have come from you. I would live on if I could, but I must‚ÅÝ‚Äî<em>must</em> have sleep.‚Äù</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Julie dropped the paper. She turned to look at her husband.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSince I read that,‚Äù he said, in a low voice, ‚ÄúI have been sitting here alone‚ÅÝ‚Äîor, rather, it is my belief that I have not been alone. But‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe hesitated‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúit is very difficult for me to speak of that‚ÅÝ‚Äîeven to you. At any rate, I have felt the touch of discipline, of command. My poor cousin deserted. I, it seems‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe drew a long and painful breath‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúmust keep to the ranks.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLet us discuss it,‚Äù said Julie; and sitting down, hand in hand, they talked quietly and gravely.</p>
			<p>Suddenly, Delafield turned to her with renewed emotion.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI feel already the energy, the honorable ambition you will bring to it. But still, you‚Äôd have given it up, Julie? You‚Äôd have given it up?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Julie chose her words.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. But now that we are to keep it, will you hate me if, some day‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen we are less sad‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI get pleasure from it? I shan‚Äôt be able to help it. When we were at La Verna, I felt that you ought to have been born in the thirteenth century, that you were really meant to wed poverty and follow <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr>¬ÝFrancis. But now you have got to be horribly, hopelessly rich. And I, all the time, am a worldling, and a modern. What you‚Äôll suffer from, I shall perhaps‚ÅÝ‚Äîenjoy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The word fell harshly on the darkened room. Delafield shivered, as though he felt the overshadowing dead. Julie impetuously took his hand.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt will be my part to be a worldling‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor your sake,‚Äù she said, her breath wavering. Their eyes met. From her face shone a revelation, a beauty that enwrapped them both. Delafield fell on his knees beside her, and laid his head upon her breast. The exquisite gesture with which she folded her arms about him told her inmost thought. At last he needed her, and the dear knowledge filled and tamed her heart.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
